Chicago was the center of the candy
industry for the United States for over
100 years not just the sanno candy
making the US for the candy company the
wool Wrigley gum M&M Mars
Brock's tootsie roll Butterfinger and
Baby Ruth countless major brands in
addition to the large companies you had
all of these small entrepreneurial
businesses like plan Z this is Guy
Lombardo introducing the tastiest candy
I've ever eaten land Z's cashew nut and
rice crunch
Elmo lands he created this candy
masterpiece that keeps you coming back
for more land Z candy should have become
a very large very successful company
they never achieved the success of
shittim here was a product that was long
gone but still had advocates on the
internet it was quite amazing to me 30
years later and people still looking for
the candy it was so good and so
memorable I thought it was well worth
trying to bring the candy back there was
no equipment available there was no
samples available my first comment that
Jerry was you don't want to do it it
made sense to reach out to lanzhi family
members to try to find the recipe I get
this phone call the man said he was
interested in the Lanza candy company he
was so taken with the cashew nut crunch
he was going to remake the candy I was
just elated my younger brother Robert
produced a test batch Robert lanzi who
grew up in the candy shop
he got me closer than we had ever been
those were the best because I made them
so how difficult is it going to be to
replicate this look because this is the
delicate look that we're after when you
try a couple more experiments for you -
it's a very old product that we're
trying to reverse engineer it's really
the combination both being a detective
and a scientist we started making a
couple prototypes based on some real
good insight from Elmo's son Robert
lanzi this is Bob's original Sam thing
his pieces are a little more dense than
ours are you know maybe a little bit I'm
not saying it's good or bad I'm just
saying there's a difference mm-hmm I'm
into getting away from the original
recipe that takes away from the melt in
your mouth
I think Bob's always wanted to resurrect
lands ease but he's got to be prepared
to say this is not going to be exactly
the same as what Dad did surface in the
street nice they leave out that top so I
got an IV making the machine it'll do
the same thing
the story of Elmo lanzhi is the
quintessential American story the
American dream a shepherd boy in the
hills the sights that come to America
and later making a life for himself
Elmo Galileo lands he was born to make
candy he thought things through to a
degree that most candy makers don't go
he had the mechanical knowledge to
design all of his own machines
he had the innate knowledge to put these
flavors together
he invented the cashew crunch at age 65
and continued working full-time until
his 80s
candy candy man
we were very surprised when they had
decided to sell the business we thought
your Bob would just step right in and
take over I believe that that was his
father's goal for him keep it in the
family Italian tradition what happened
in the interim I don't know
memories of 30 and 40 years are kind of
hard to just catch and say here it is
you pick up little tidbits here and
there and you put all those pieces
together to form a whole stunt crews
blasted the old Brock's candy factory at
Lake in Cicero the candy industry in
Chicago's have over 20,000 employees
we're down to last 5,000 me J brought
for instance lodges candy factory in the
world
employing 3,500 to 4,000 people
that's say Deus colonists on expanding
is contracting when the industry is
doing quite well it was owned and run by
entrepreneurs family run patriarchy
matriarchal type of systems is very
difficult to survive or exist in the
environment of these large multinational
conglomerates I think that for many
people the idea of going into the candy
business is kind of a dream because it
ties you somehow back to your childhood
and where you came from people go into
it because it bonded them with their
family and they hope that they can
continue that family recipe and grow it
to the next generation
I knew going into this that I would be a
small fish in a very large punt
I didn't realize quite how small were
three years into this now how much
progress have we made we were talking
about at least 250,000 to bring this to
market how much am I prepared to invest
how do we get to the finish line where
is the finish line
you really look at candy and you see how
it's made you look at and say wow this
is so simple but it's always easier on
the outside looking in the machine that
no mold build is lost forever so the
question is whether anyone can come up
with a whole different manufacturing
process to recreate this you're Elmo's
grandson you've grown up with the candy
would you bet the farm or not tasteless
and see your money now dear dollars
that's always a question of what's gonna
run out first the will or the money